From our video archives, we have comments from brother Theodore
Jaros, who served as a member of the governing body before he died and received
his heavenly reward. Young ones, this illustrates that weathering test of faith as a
young person can mold us for a long life of faithful service. Brother Jaros
recounts what he had to face as a young man.
During World War II, I was pioneering. When we go back to that period of time, it
was a different era. Many times individuals would even threaten you. They were
going to run you out of the community or out of the neighborhood and sometimes
even resort to other threats. And I have some vivid recollections of what it
was like. I was a young man at the time. It was a joy to be out in the ministry
that you had to be very equipped to be ready to give an answer of the hope that
it was as in you and to uphold the position that a Christian should take in such
turbulent times. The organization published a very fine article that was very
timely on the subject of neutrality. And that appeared in the November 1st 1939
issue of the watchtower. It defined what neutrality meant. When it comes to being
in support of some cause, we were 100% in support of the kingdom. We were
representing God's kingdom as God's ambassadors or employees here upon the
earth. And so we could not engage in any of the world's controversies or share
in their war efforts because we were not taking sides. The convention in
St. Louis was held during the period of the war. The convention program
impressed upon my mind the need for keeping integrity. And in doing that we would
be upholding Jehovah's sovereignty. When it came time for recruiting young
men and we had to register for the draft, why the brothers already knew what
their position would be. But since the World War II was raging, here in this
country, especially there was a lot of patriotic fervor, and the attitude of
people was that if you weren't in the army as a young man and you were either
considered to be unfit or else you were a draft dodger. And so when we went out
in the field ministry, many times people would abuse you verbally, especially if
they were opposed. There was some provision in the United States Selective
Service Act that allowed for ministers to be exempted. But for the most part,
only pioneers and some who may have had appointed positions in the
congregation were given recognition as ministers. That was rare. But most
of the brothers had to go to prison and they were prepared for this. They knew
what was in store and they made a firm stand for Jehovah's Righteous Cause. And
I enjoyed preaching but I was prepared to do like many of the other brothers
were ready to do and that was to go to prison if we had to suffer for
righteousness sake. There's a group we were on popular and there was a lot of
publicity given to mob violence or beatings or perhaps other things that
people were not in agreement with as far as Jehovah's Witnesses are concerned.
On the other hand, there were many honest hearted people who really listened to
the Kingdom message. We found a lot of sheep like ones and they were sympathetic to
us. They had a love for the Bible. We had many home Bible studies that were
being conducted at that time. We will always refer to the precedent that we
have in the position that Jesus Christ took when he was before pilot and Roman
official. And as Jesus pointed out, His Kingdom was no part of this world. And
since we represent God's Kingdom, we're sort of aliens in this world representing
that government. And so as a result, that's where our legions belonged. So that
does not mean that we're seditionist or that we're opposed to human
governments. It simply means that we're neutral. This helped to strengthen the
brothers because when they saw others holding fast to the truth, maintaining
their integrity. And that was a challenge in those turbulent days that
steal them for opposition that they had to face. So rather than frightening
our brothers, as the Apostle Paul pointed out, we should not be frightened by
our opponents, our brothers were really filled with a greater measure of
Jehovah spirit, which enabled them to be bold and also to be fearless in
declaring the truth. If we take our stand firmly on Jehovah's side and support
that side, then we're going to succeed in accomplishing what he wants us to do.
He's backing us not. And as Jesus promised, he would be with us down to the
conclusion of the sister of things. We experienced that. As the prophets
echo, I wrote, it's not by human might or power, but by my spirit. It would be
impossible for humans to do what Jehovah accomplished. We have to get him full
credit for things that have transpired. And it's a marvel in our eyes when we look
back to see how he did. We were simply instruments in his hand. And he maneuvered
us, he guided us by his spirit, and we tried to be responsive to the way that
spirit led us.